Kerala
Kerala is nicknamed as “God’s own country“.

Kerala is a state on the tropical Malabar Coast of southwestern India. Nicknamed as one of the “10 paradises of the world” by National Geographic, Kerala is famous especially for its eco-tourism initiatives. Its unique culture and traditions, coupled with its varied demography, has made it one of the most popular tourist destinations in India. Growing at a rate of 13.31%, the tourism industry significantly contributes to the state’s economy. Kerala is known for its tropical backwaters and pristine beaches such as Kovalam.

Popular attractions in the state include the beaches at Kovalam, Cherai and Varkala; the hill stations of Munnar, Nelliampathi, Ponmudi and Wayanad; and national parks and wildlife sanctuaries at Periyar and Eravikulam National Park. The “backwaters” region, an extensive network of interlocking rivers, lakes, and canals that centre on Alleppey, Kumarakom, and Punnamada also see heavy tourist traffic. Heritage sites, such as the Padmanabhapuram Palace, Hill Palace, Mattancherry Palace are also visited. Cities such as Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram(Trivandrum) are popular centers for shopping and traditional theatrical performances. Idukki Arch Dam which is first and biggest in Asia, and second biggest one in the world attracts tourists in many ways.

The state’s tourism agenda promotes ecologically sustained tourism, which focuses on the local culture, wilderness adventures, volunteering and personal growth of the local population. Efforts are taken to minimize the adverse effects of traditional tourism on the natural environment, and enhance the cultural integrity of local people.

Kerala, the land of rivers and backwaters is a green strip of land, in the South West corner of Indian peninsula. Kerala is a state with full literacy, Higher Health care and lower mortality ratio. In Kerala you experience freshness and touch of mother earth everywhere. No wonder keralites call their State” God’s Own Country”. Backwaters of Kerala are unique attraction to tourists. The biggest among these backwaters is the Vembanad lake, with an area of 200 sq km, which opens out into the Arabian Sea at Cochin port. Backwaters, historical structures, culture, wildlife, and natural beauty, the state has all these and more. The major tourist destinations in the State include Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kovalam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Munnar, Palakkad, Alappuzha, Kollam, Kannur, Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary, and Sabrimalai.